README.md, before:

# Pointnet Implementation Using TF2
> The entire reporsitory covers 2 aspects - firstly implemnetation of pointnet architecture to classify objects, perform part segmentation and also to perform semantic segmentation, secondly it helps us to visualize the data around these pointnet architecture and perform prediction pipeline on test datasets using DASH Framework. The modeelling aspect is done by utilizing tensorflow 2 and code waork is completed by using keras.

> Live demo [_here_](https://www.example.com). <!-- If you have the project hosted somewhere, include the link here. -->

## Table of Contents
* [General Info](#general-information)
* [Technologies Used](#technologies-used)
* [Features](#features)
* [Screenshots](#screenshots)
* [Setup](#setup)
* [Dataset Utilized](#dataset-utilized)
* [Usage](#usage)
* [Project Status](#project-status)
* [Room for Improvement](#room-for-improvement)
* [References](#references)
* [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)
* [Contact](#contact)
<!-- * [License](#license) -->

## General Information
- The aim of this repository is to implement Pointnet Architecture on readily available 3d datasets and also to create interactive visualizations in DASH
- The repository helps Deep Learning enthusiasts to implement pointnet architecture by working on generating training pipeline and inference pipeline separately. It also introduces them to the power of building web interactive apps using DASH as primary framework and also will teach them to structure code around web applications.
- Understand Pointnet Architecture and develop POC around research papers from main authors of Pointnet Architecture.
- Implement Pointnet for developing a 3d classifier, 3d part segmenter and 3d semantic segmenter.
<!-- You don't have to answer all the questions - just the ones relevant to your project. -->
![Pointnet Model Architecture](./repo_assets/PointNet_Architecture.jpg)

## Technologies Used
- Tensorflow2
- Keras
- Dash 

## Features
List the ready features here:
- Training and Inferencing Pointnet Classifier - Done
- Training and Inferencing Pointnet Part Segmenter - In Progress
- Training and Inferencing Pointnet Semantic Segmenter - To Be Started

## Screenshots
![Pointnet Classifier Frontend](./repo_assets/Pointnet_Classifier_Frontend.jpeg)
![Pointnet Part Segmenter Frontend](./repo_assets/Pointnet_Part_Segmenter_Frontend.jpeg)

## Setup:
- git clone https://github.com/ManashJKonwar/IP-Pointnet.git (Clone the repository)
- python3 -m venv IPPointnetVenv (Create virtual environment from existing python3)
- activate the "IPPointnetVenv" (Activating the virtual environment)
- pip install -r requirements.txt (Install all required python modules)

## Dataset Utilized:
- 

## Usage
### For Training PointNet:
- python train_pointnet.py
### For Running Web Application:
- python index.py

## Project Status
Project is: __in progress_ 
<!-- / _complete_ / _no longer being worked on_. If you are no longer working on it, provide reasons why._ -->

## Room for Improvement
Room for improvement:
- Build a generic classifier for custom 3d dataset
- Build a generic part segmenter for custom 3d dataset
- Build a generic semantic segmenter for custom 3d dataset
- Develop frontend to encompass this generic nature
- Porvide support for CPUs, GPUs and TPUs as well

To do:
- Finish developing inference end of part segmenter at DASH end
- Start developing semantic segmenter

## References
[1] PointNet: Deep Learning on Point Sets for 3D Classification and Segmentation; Charles R. Qi, Hao Su, Kaichun Mo, Leonidas J. Guibas;
CVPR 2017; https://arxiv.org/abs/1612.00593.

## Acknowledgements
- This project was based on [Point cloud classification with PointNet](https://keras.io/examples/vision/pointnet/).
- This project was based on [Point cloud segmentation with PointNet](https://keras.io/examples/vision/pointnet_segmentation/).

## Contact
Created by [@ManashJKonwar](https://github.com/ManashJKonwar) - feel free to contact me!

<!-- Optional -->
<!-- ## License -->
<!-- This project is open source and available under the [... License](). -->

<!-- You don't have to include all sections - just the one's relevant to your project -->

Commit message:

Update: Adding_dataset_information_to_readme
Signed-off-by: ManashJKonwar <rickykonwar@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

# Pointnet Implementation Using TF2
> The entire reporsitory covers 2 aspects - firstly implemnetation of pointnet architecture to classify objects, perform part segmentation and also to perform semantic segmentation, secondly it helps us to visualize the data around these pointnet architecture and perform prediction pipeline on test datasets using DASH Framework. The modeelling aspect is done by utilizing tensorflow 2 and code waork is completed by using keras.

> Live demo [_here_](https://www.example.com). <!-- If you have the project hosted somewhere, include the link here. -->

## Table of Contents
* [General Info](#general-information)
* [Technologies Used](#technologies-used)
* [Features](#features)
* [Screenshots](#screenshots)
* [Setup](#setup)
* [Dataset Utilized](#dataset-utilized)
* [Usage](#usage)
* [Project Status](#project-status)
* [Room for Improvement](#room-for-improvement)
* [References](#references)
* [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)
* [Contact](#contact)
<!-- * [License](#license) -->

## General Information
- The aim of this repository is to implement Pointnet Architecture on readily available 3d datasets and also to create interactive visualizations in DASH
- The repository helps Deep Learning enthusiasts to implement pointnet architecture by working on generating training pipeline and inference pipeline separately. It also introduces them to the power of building web interactive apps using DASH as primary framework and also will teach them to structure code around web applications.
- Understand Pointnet Architecture and develop POC around research papers from main authors of Pointnet Architecture.
- Implement Pointnet for developing a 3d classifier, 3d part segmenter and 3d semantic segmenter.
<!-- You don't have to answer all the questions - just the ones relevant to your project. -->
![Pointnet Model Architecture](./repo_assets/PointNet_Architecture.jpg)

- Please do refer to the Learn More Sections in each page of the web application to deep dive into each of this case studies.

## Technologies Used
- Tensorflow2
- Keras
- Dash 

## Features
List the ready features here:
- Training and Inferencing Pointnet Classifier - Done
- Training and Inferencing Pointnet Part Segmenter - In Progress
- Training and Inferencing Pointnet Semantic Segmenter - To Be Started

## Screenshots
![Pointnet Classifier Frontend](./repo_assets/Pointnet_Classifier_Frontend.jpeg)
![Pointnet Part Segmenter Frontend](./repo_assets/Pointnet_Part_Segmenter_Frontend.jpeg)

## Setup:
- git clone https://github.com/ManashJKonwar/IP-Pointnet.git (Clone the repository)
- python3 -m venv IPPointnetVenv (Create virtual environment from existing python3)
- activate the "IPPointnetVenv" (Activating the virtual environment)
- pip install -r requirements.txt (Install all required python modules)

## Dataset Utilized:
- [PointNet Classifier](http://3dvision.princeton.edu/projects/2014/3DShapeNets/)
Credit goes to [ModelNet 10 dataset](http://modelnet.cs.princeton.edu/) which contains CAD Models from 10 common categories. This is actually a subset of ModelNet 40 dataset.
Each of the point under each object category consist of labelling as to which object category it belongs and this information helps us greatly to perform training as well as validation 
runs.
- [Pointnet Part Segmenter](http://3dvision.princeton.edu/projects/2014/3DShapeNets/)
Credit goes to [ShapeNet dataset](https://shapenet.org/). Its an ongoing effort to establish a richly-annotated, large-scale dataset of 3D shapes. ShapeNetCore is a subset of the 
full ShapeNet dataset with clean single 3D models and manually verified category and alignment annotations. It covers 55 common object categories, with about 51,300 unique 3D models.
I have utilized only 12 object categories of PASCAL 3D+, included as part of the ShapenetCore dataset and each of this category contains part level labelling for perform training as 
well as validation runs


## Usage
### For Training PointNet:
- python train_pointnet.py
### For Running Web Application:
- python index.py

## Project Status
Project is: __in progress_ 
<!-- / _complete_ / _no longer being worked on_. If you are no longer working on it, provide reasons why._ -->

## Room for Improvement
Room for improvement:
- Build a generic classifier for custom 3d dataset
- Build a generic part segmenter for custom 3d dataset
- Build a generic semantic segmenter for custom 3d dataset
- Develop frontend to encompass this generic nature
- Porvide support for CPUs, GPUs and TPUs as well

To do:
- Finish developing inference end of part segmenter at DASH end
- Start developing semantic segmenter

## References
[1] PointNet: Deep Learning on Point Sets for 3D Classification and Segmentation; Charles R. Qi, Hao Su, Kaichun Mo, Leonidas J. Guibas;
CVPR 2017; https://arxiv.org/abs/1612.00593.

## Acknowledgements
- This project was based on [Point cloud classification with PointNet](https://keras.io/examples/vision/pointnet/).
- This project was based on [Point cloud segmentation with PointNet](https://keras.io/examples/vision/pointnet_segmentation/).

## Contact
Created by [@ManashJKonwar](https://github.com/ManashJKonwar) - feel free to contact me!

<!-- Optional -->
<!-- ## License -->
<!-- This project is open source and available under the [... License](). -->

<!-- You don't have to include all sections - just the one's relevant to your project -->
